docs/usage/graphql_storefront.md, before:

# Make a Storefront API call

The library also allows you to send GraphQL requests to the [Shopify Storefront API](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/storefront). To do that, you can use `ShopifyAPI::Clients::Graphql::Storefront` with the current session and a `storefrontAccessToken`.

You can obtain Storefront API access tokens for both private apps and sales channels. Please read [our documentation](https://shopify.dev/docs/custom-storefronts/building-with-the-storefront-api/getting-started) to learn more about Storefront Access Tokens.

Below is an example of how you may query the Storefront API:

```ruby
# Load the access token as per instructions above
storefront_access_token = ''
# your shop domain
shop_url = 'shop.myshopify.com'

# initialize the client with session and storefront access token
client = ShopifyAPI::Clients::Graphql::Storefront.new(shop_url, storefront_access_token)

query = <<~QUERY
  {
    collections(first: 2) {
      edges {
        node {
          id
          products(first: 5) {
            edges {
              node {
                id
                title
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
QUERY

response = client.query(query: query)
# do something with the returned data
```

By default, the client uses the API version configured in `ShopifyAPI`.  To use a different API version, set the optional `api_version` parameter.  To experiment with prerelease API features, use `"unstable"` for the API version.

```ruby
client = ShopifyAPI::Clients::Graphql::Storefront.new(shop_url, storefront_access_token, api_version: "unstable")
```

Want to make calls to the Admin API? Click [here](graphql.md)

Commit message:

Support using the Storefront private access token
This allows for using [the Storefront private access token][1] with the
library's Storefront GraphQL client. Since this client is probably going
to be running on a server where the token can be secured, using the
private access token should be preferred. This commit doesn't make using
the private token the default to avoid an immediate breaking change. We
want to give clients time to see the deprecation and update their
scripts.

Closes #1293

[1]: https://shopify.dev/docs/api/usage/authentication#getting-started-with-private-access

docs/usage/graphql_storefront.md, after:

# Make a Storefront API call

The library also allows you to send GraphQL requests to the [Shopify Storefront API](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/storefront). To do that, you can use `ShopifyAPI::Clients::Graphql::Storefront` with either a [private or public Storefront access token](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/usage/authentication#access-tokens-for-the-storefront-api).

You can obtain Storefront API access tokens for both private apps and sales channels. Please read [our documentation](https://shopify.dev/docs/custom-storefronts/building-with-the-storefront-api/getting-started) to learn more about Storefront Access Tokens.

Below is an example of how you may query the Storefront API:

```ruby
# Load the access token as per instructions above
storefront_private_access_token = ''
# your shop domain
shop_url = 'shop.myshopify.com'

# initialize the client with session and a private Storefront access token
client = ShopifyAPI::Clients::Graphql::Storefront.new(shop_url, private_token: storefront_private_access_token)
# or, alternatively with a public Storefront access token:
# client = ShopifyAPI::Clients::Graphql::Storefront.new(shop_url, public_token: storefront_public_access_token)

query = <<~QUERY
  {
    collections(first: 2) {
      edges {
        node {
          id
          products(first: 5) {
            edges {
              node {
                id
                title
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
QUERY

# You may not need the "Shopify-Storefront-Buyer-IP" header, see its documentation: 
# https://shopify.dev/docs/api/usage/authentication#making-server-side-requests
response = client.query(query: query, headers: { "Shopify-Storefront-Buyer-IP": request.ip })
# do something with the returned data
```

By default, the client uses the API version configured in `ShopifyAPI`.  To use a different API version, set the optional `api_version` parameter.  To experiment with prerelease API features, use `"unstable"` for the API version.

```ruby
client = ShopifyAPI::Clients::Graphql::Storefront.new(shop_url,
  private_token: storefront_private_access_token,
  api_version: "unstable"
)
```

Want to make calls to the Admin API? Click [here](graphql.md)
